# Understanding Scope


## The Cast
* **Engine**: 从头到尾负责整个 JavaScrip t程序的编译及执行过程。
* **Compiler**: 负责语法分析及代码生成等脏活累活。
* **Scope**: 负责收集并维护由所有声明的标识符（变量）组成的一系列查询，并实施一套非常严
格的规则，确定当前执行的代码对这些标识符的访问权限。


## 以代码`var a = 2;`为例讲解引擎编译代码时的作用域概念
1. The first thing Compiler will do with this program is perform lexing to break
it down into tokens.
2. Parse these tokens into a tree.
3. Encountering `var a`, Compiler asks Scope to see if a variable `a` already
exists for that particular scope collection. If so, Compiler ignores this
declaration and moves on. Otherwise, Compiler asks Scope to declare a new
variable called `a` for that scope collection.
4. Compiler then produces code for Engine to later execute, to handle the
`a = 2` assignment.
5. The code Engine runs will first ask Scope if there is a variable called `a`
accessible in the current scope collection. If so, Engine uses that variable. If
not, Engine looks elsewhere.
6. If Engine eventually finds a variable, it assigns the value `2` to it. If not
, Engine will throw an error.  

**To summarize**: Two distinct actions are taken for a variable assignment:
1. First, Compiler declares a variable (if not previously declared in the
current scope)
2. Second, when executing, Engine looks up the variable in Scope and assigns to
it, if found.


## LHS 和 RHS
1. When Engine executes the code that Compiler produced for step (2), it has to
look-up the variable `a` to see if it has been declared, and this look-up is
consulting Scope. But the type of look-up Engine performs affects the outcome of
the look-up.
2. An LHS look-up is done when a variable appears on the left-hand side of an
assignment operation, and an RHS look-up is done when a variable appears on the
right-hand side of an assignment operation.
3. An RHS look-up is indistinguishable from simply a look-up of the value of
some variable, whereas the LHS look-up is trying to find the variable container
itself, so that it can assign.
4. In this way, RHS doesn't really mean "right-hand side of an assignment" per
se, it just, more accurately, means "not left-hand side". Being slightly glib
for a moment, you could also think "RHS" instead means "retrieve his/her source
(value)", implying that RHS means "go get the value of...".
	```js
	console.log( a );
	```
The reference to `a` is an RHS reference, because nothing is being assigned to
`a` here. Instead, we're looking-up to retrieve the value of `a`, so that the
value can be passed to `console.log()`. By contrast:
	```js
	a = 2;
	```
The reference to `a` here is an LHS reference, because we don't actually care
what the current value is, we simply want to find the variable as a target for
the `= 2` assignment operation.
5. LHS and RHS meaning "left/right-hand side of an assignment" doesn't
necessarily literally mean "left/right side of the `=` assignment operator".
There are several other ways that assignments happen:
	```js
	function foo(a) {
		console.log(a); // 2
	}
	foo(2);
	```
    * The last line that invokes `foo(..)` as a function call requires an RHS
	reference to `foo`, meaning, "go look-up the value of `foo`, and give it to
	me."
    * There's a subtle assignment here, it happens when the value `2` is
	assigned to the parameter `a`, an LHS look-up is performed.
    * There's also an RHS reference for the value of `a`, and that resulting
	value is passed to `console.log()`.
    * `console.log()` also needs a reference to execute. It's an RHS look-up for
    the `console` object, then a property-resolution occurs to see if it has a
	method called `log`.
6. Function declaration is not an LHS look-up
```js
function foo(a) {}
```
Compiler handles both the declaration and the value definition during
code-generation, such that when Engine is executing code, there's no processing
necessary to "assign" a function value to `foo`.


## How engine looks up elements in scope
```js
function foo(a) {
    console.log(a); // 2
}
foo(2);
```
1. 引擎执行到`foo(2)`时， 需要对`foo`进行 RHS，因此查询作用域
2. 因为之前编译器在正确的作用域里声明了该函数，因此引擎可以查询到该函数的值
3. engine executes `foo`
4. 执行该函数时因为进行了`2`的传参，因此要进行 LHS，看看把`2`赋值给了谁
5. 因为编译器在正确的作用域里创建了该形参，因此引擎得以找到该变量，成功传参。
6. 函数内部存在一个`console`引擎不知道是什么，需要到作用域中进行 RHS 查询
7. 作用域中存在该内置对象，引擎找到该对象并从中找到了`log()`方法
8. 将`a`传给该方法的参数时，还要进行一次 RHS 来确定`a`的值。


## Reference
* [You Don't Know JS: Scope & Closures](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/scope%20%26%20closures/ch1.md)
* [《你不知道的JavaScript（上卷）》](https://book.douban.com/subject/26351021/)
