# Render Blocking CSS

## By default, CSS is treated as a render blocking resource
which means that the browser won't render any processed content until the CSSOM
is constructed. Make sure to keep your CSS lean, deliver it as quickly as
possible, and use media types and queries to unblock rendering.


## Media types and media queries allow us to mark some CSS resources as non-render blocking
```html
<link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet">
<link href="print.css" rel="stylesheet" media="print">
<link href="other.css" rel="stylesheet" media="(min-width: 40em)">
```
1. First stylesheet declaration doesn't provide a media type or query, so it
applies in all cases; that is to say, it is always render blocking.
2. On the other hand, the second stylesheet declaration applies only when the
content is being printed---perhaps you want to rearrange the layout, change the
fonts, and so on, and hence this stylesheet declaration doesn't need to block
the rendering of the page when it is first loaded.
3. Finally, the last stylesheet declaration provides a "media query," which is
executed by the browser: if the conditions match, the browser blocks rendering
until the style sheet is downloaded and processed.
4. When declaring your style sheet assets, pay close attention to the media type
 and queries; they greatly impact critical rendering path performance.
5. Finally, note that "render blocking" only refers to whether the browser has
to hold the initial rendering of the page on that resource. In either case, the
browser still downloads the CSS asset, albeit with a lower priority for
non-blocking resources.
