# Optimizing the Critical Rendering Path

## Performance patterns
* **Critical Resource**: Resource that could block initial rendering of the page.
* **Critical Path Length**: Number of roundtrips, or the total time required to
fetch all of the critical resources.
* **Critical Bytes**: Total number of bytes required to get to first render of
the page, which is the sum of the transfer filesizes of all critical resources.


## 优化策略
To deliver the fastest possible time to first render, we need to minimize three
variables:
* **The number of critical resources**:  
A critical resource is a resource that could block initial rendering of the page
. The fewer of these resources, the less work for the browser, the CPU, and
other resources.
* **The critical path length**:  
The critical path length is a function of the dependency graph between the
critical resources and their bytesize: some resource downloads can only be
initiated after a previous resource has been processed, and the larger the
resource the more roundtrips it takes to download.
* **The number of critical bytes**:  
The fewer critical bytes the browser has to download, the faster it can process
content and render it visible on the screen. To reduce the number of bytes, we
can reduce the number of resources (eliminate them or make them non-critical)
and ensure that we minimize the transfer size by compressing and optimizing each
 resource.

### General sequence of steps to optimize the critical rendering path
1. Analyze and characterize your critical path: number of resources, bytes,
length.
2. Minimize number of critical resources: eliminate them, defer their download,
mark them as async, and so on.
3. Optimize the number of critical bytes to reduce the download time (number of
roundtrips).
4. Optimize the order in which the remaining critical resources are loaded:
download all critical assets as early as possible to shorten the critical path
length.


## 具体优化内容
### Eliminate render-blocking JavaScript and CSS
To deliver the fastest time to first render, minimize and (where possible)
eliminate the number of critical resources on the page, minimize the number of
downloaded critical bytes, and optimize the critical path length.

### Optimize JavaScript use
JavaScript resources are parser blocking by default unless marked as async or
added via a special JavaScript snippet. Parser blocking JavaScript forces the
browser to wait for the CSSOM and pauses construction of the DOM, which in turn
can significantly delay the time to first render.

#### Prefer asynchronous JavaScript resources
Asynchronous resources unblock the document parser and allow the browser to
avoid blocking on CSSOM prior to executing the script. Often, if the script can
use the `async` attribute, it also means it is not essential for the first
render. Consider loading scripts asynchronously after the initial render.

#### Avoid synchronous server calls
不懂 [原文](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/page-speed-rules-and-recommendations)

#### Defer parsing JavaScript
To minimize the amount of work the browser has to perform to render the page,
defer any non-essential scripts that are not critical to constructing the
visible content for the initial render.

#### Avoid long running JavaScript
Long running JavaScript blocks the browser from constructing the DOM, CSSOM,
and rendering the page, so defer until later any initialization logic and
functionality that is non-essential for the first render. If a long
initialization sequence needs to run, consider splitting it into several stages
to allow the browser to process other events in between.

### Optimize CSS Use
CSS is required to construct the render tree and JavaScript often blocks on CSS
during initial construction of the page. Ensure that any non-essential CSS is
marked as non-critical (for example, print and other media queries), and that
the amount of critical CSS and the time to deliver it is as small as possible.

#### Put CSS in the document head
Specify all CSS resources as early as possible within the HTML document so that
the browser can discover the <link> tags and dispatch the request for the CSS as
 soon as possible.

#### Avoid CSS imports
The CSS import (`@import`) directive enables one stylesheet to import rules from
 another stylesheet file. However, avoid these directives because they introduce
 additional roundtrips into the critical path: the imported CSS resources are
discovered only after the CSS stylesheet with the `@import` rule itself is
received and parsed.

#### Inline render-blocking CSS
For best performance, you may want to consider inlining the critical CSS
directly into the HTML document. This eliminates additional roundtrips in the
critical path and if done correctly can deliver a "one roundtrip" critical path
length where only the HTML is a blocking resource.



## References
* [Analyzing Critical Rendering Path Performance](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/analyzing-crp#performance_patterns)
* [Optimizing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/optimizing-critical-rendering-path)
* [PageSpeed Rules and Recommendations](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/page-speed-rules-and-recommendations)
